okay for those of you who ask and for my
kids here it is pre-heat your oven to
350 and then dos start chopping your
garlic and your onions if you're going
to add them now if you have finicky
children like mine were they may not
like onion
and garlic so you can just leave this
first two steps out if you wish
but I decided to trick my children and I
started adding just a little bit of
onion and a little bit of garlic at a
time and I chopped it up very very good
the smaller it is the less likely
they'll notice it but they will notice
the flavor and just think it's yummy so
I just chop and chop and chop until I
feel like I just can't chop anymore and
as you'll see these pieces are very very
tiny next step is the eggs and I like to
use eggs from free-roaming hens and I've
got to tell you one time my daughter and
I were in the grocery store in the
produce section and we weren't sure
where the eggs were so he asked the
produce man we said do you have any free
roaming eggs and he was standing next to
a cooler and he and he put his arms he
stretched his arms out and put it around
the cooler he said no I don't have any
free roaming eggs he said I make all my
eggs stay right here it was hilarious
that we laughed about that for quite
some time oh yeah you just saw me sniff
those eggs I like to smell my eggs to
make sure they're fresh
before I add them to my meatloaf
so just beat them up really good and
then take a pack of crackers you know
the kind I'm talking about those kind
that aren't very good for you and just
smash them up really really good while
they're in the package in that way you
don't have much of a mess you know
because all the crumbs stay right inside
of there I like to get these really
really small because when you get a big
piece of cracker in your meatloaf
it just isn't good so make them really
really tiny smush I'm good next is your
tomato sauce I don't have a special
preference I just normally buy
whatever's on sale you can use whatever
kind you want you just need one can and
about a pound to a pound and a half of
lean ground beef I like to use the lean
stuff and there's less grease in there
you know
and it's better and healthier for you
and I use about a half a can of the
tomato sauce in the burger the cold
burger make sure that burgers cold and
a1 sauce probably about two tablespoons
I just eyeball it the same with what's
this here sauce about two tablespoons I
guess just you know sprinkle it over the
top but the trick is to a good meatloaf
that melds together and holds together
and doesn't fall apart is the meat must
be cold yeah add some of this ketchup in
here now all these liquidy items they're
gonna help your meatloaf hold together
and your onions and your garlic put that
in there if you're going to and your
free-roaming eggs and of course the
crackers then you pour the crackers in
now you're gonna mix this up
you're not gonna mix too long that's the
key to if you overwork the meatloaf it's
gonna get warm from your hands and it
will fall apart when you cut it so it's
a little bit of garlic powder and salt
and pepper to taste
and if you're superstitious like I am
but have a bad memory and you spill the
salt I just pick a little up and throw a
little over each shoulder because I
could never remember which shoulder to
throw it over
so anyway mix your meatloaf and like I
said don't play right in there too long
just get it so that all the crackers are
wet and mixed in there real good and
then shape it up and put it in the pan
just think pattycake hmm okay when I'm
shaping the meatloaf into the pan I like
to make a little well I press down with
my hands to make a little well on the
top of the meatloaf for later okay so
now it's time to put your meatloaf in
the oven and I like to cover a cookie
sheet with aluminum foil that way if
there's any grease splatters it'll make
for easier cleanup later and less chance
for a fire so we set our timer to 45
minutes and then we go on and prepare
the rest of our meal while we're waiting
for our meatloaf to cook and today we're
gonna have Dolly's famous potato
pancakes okay some yummy garlic and
onions chopped and lowery salt
and then we're gonna put in some Jane's
crazy mixed-up salt I don't know if you
can get this in your town because when I
first moved to Florida I had to talk my
grocer into ordering this for me we
haven't in Ohio but when seven years ago
when I came to Florida they didn't have
it but this is a essential ingredient
for potato pancakes and of course more
garlic powder and salt and pepper to
taste and the key again folks is cold
potatoes very cold that holds them
together when they're cooking and they
won't fall apart on you okay but again
your potatoes must be very cold so if
you have leftover mashed potatoes from
last night's meal get them out and make
some potato pancakes with them don't
mess around in there too long just like
with the meatloaf hurry up and make your
patties and remember the temperature of
your oil is very important and I like to
use extra virgin olive oil just like
Rachael Ray got to have something
healthy going on in this meal and like I
said the temperature is very important I
try to cook mine
medium heat okay so I just take a little
bit of the potato the cold potato and I
put it in the pan and when that starts
sizzling I know
and is ready for my potato pancake
and now when I start to see little
crispy things growing around the outer
part of the potato pancake I know it's
time to flip it so be careful at this
part that you don't dumb and get that
hot oil on you because it will hurt so
just flip it over and looky there
nice golden-brown potato pancakes I love
them they're so yummy
it's important to cook your potato
pancakes in a Teflon pan and my daughter
only has a small Teflon pan so I have to
cook one at a time and I like frozen
corn or fresh corn I don't really care
for canned stuff so I'm heating up some
of that as well
all right now when your buzzer rings at
45 minutes then take your meatloaf out
and pour the other half of that tomato
sauce that you saved pour that over the
top and cook it for another 15 minutes
and voila we have home cooked comfort
food don't want to eat this very often
because it really isn't that healthy for
you
but it sure is good and it is comforting
now watch how this stays together as I
slice it and serve it on the plate it's
all because it was cold when I started
I'm starving
let's go eat